# Summary

`MLTransform` is a beam PTransform that can be used to apply data processing transforms on your entire dataset. `MLTransform` works in two modes.

* **Write Mode**: In write mode, `MLTransform` analyzes the entire dataset, generating various artifacts(if applicable) for various data processing transformation. These artifacts are stored at the specified `write_artifact_location`. The purpose of this mode is to preprocess the entire dataset by generting the artifacts. Additionally, MLTransform saves the transformation steps used, eliminating the need to repeat them in Read mode.

* **Read Mode**: Read mode involves applying the preprocessing steps and the artifacts saved during write mode to new data. This process guarantees uniform processing across both the training and inference stages of your machine learning model. By doing this, it helps in minimizing discrepancies and errors, ensuring more reliable and consistent model performance.

### Artifacts
Artifacts are additional data elements created by data transformations. For example,
* min, max values generated by `ScaleTo01` transform.
* Vocabulary file generated by `ComputeAndApplyVocabulary` transform.

For more information on artifact, look at the [Artifacts](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/preprocess-data/#artifacts) section.


Each notebook will go over a specific data processing transform provided by Apache Beam, explaining its usage with examples. For more information on `MLTransform`, look at
* https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/preprocess-data/
* https://beam.apache.org/documentation/transforms/python/elementwise/mltransform/

